WIP some more consensus (#8)
cardano-scaling/cardano-blueprint: src/storage/README.md

# The Storage Layer

The Storage layer is responsible of storing the data used and produced

> by the Consensus layer. Some of this data is "hot" and relates to the

Author: I don't think so. But I'm changing it to immutable and volatile in any case.

candidate chains and other data is "cold" and relates to the
historical chain, following the principle described in [the `k`
security parameter

> section](../consensus/chainsel.html#the-k-security-parameter).

Reviewer: Is it correct to say data "produced" by the Consensus layer.  In a sense, this component receives data (in the form of blocks and transactions), and sometimes produces some other (blocks).

Author: Changed to "storing the data on behalf of the Consensus layer"

| VolatileDB             | Store a bag of non-definitive blocks and headers. In particular it contains the blocks which, when linked sequentially, form the current selected chain |
| Ledger State snapshots | Periodically store the ledger state at the tip of the ImmutableDB                                                                                       |

```mermaid
flowchart RL
    subgraph VolatileDB;
      subgraph "current selection";
        Tip -->|...| Km1["(k-1)-th Block"]
        Km1 --> K["k-th Block"]
      end

      O1["Block"] --> O2["Block"]
      O3["Block"] --> K

      O4["Block"]
    end

    subgraph ImmutableDB;
     C0[" "]

     Kp1["(k+1)-th Block"] --> Kp2["(k+2)-th Block"]
     Kp2["(k+2)-th Block"] -->|...| C0
    end
    K --> Kp1
    C0 --> Genesis
    subgraph Snapshots;
     S["Persisted snapshot"] --> Kp1
    end
```

Notice that although this implementation is just one of the endless
possibilities to store the data, it is the one used by IOG's
`cardano-node` and as such has become the de-facto standard to
distribute the Cardano chain outside of the node's own syncing
process. This in particular means that services like Mithril are

> involved in signing such directory structure and its format.

Author: I don't think a link is needed (1) it is clear still which implementation we are talking about (2) the storage layer is not even in the node repo.

> 

Author: Done

Whichever storage system designed for Cardano should fulfill some
requirements for the MiniProtocols to work and for the Consensus layer
to fulfill its requirements:

> - Fast sequential access to immutable blocks: syncing peers will
>   request blocks from the historical chain in a sequential fashion.
> - Fast access to blocks from the current chain selection in the
>   VolatileDB: other peers will request this information both when
>   syncing and when caught up.
> - Fast identification of chains of blocks in the VolatileDB: although
>   blocks might arrive in any order, once a chain of blocks better than
>   the current selection is assembled in the VolatileDB the Consensus
>   Chain Selection should be invoked to select such a better candidate.
> - Fast restart of the node if shut down without having to replay the
>   whole chain but still allowing for `k`-deep forks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fast sequential access to immutable blocks: Syncing peers request historical chain blocks sequentially.
- Fast access to current chain-selection blocks in the VolatileDB: Peers request this information during syncing and when caught-up.
- Fast identification of chains of blocks in the VolatileDB: Even if blocks arrive in arbitrary order, the Consensus Chain Selection should be invoked to select a better candidate chain once assembled in the VolatileDB.
- Fast node restart after shutdown without full chain replay, while supporting `k`-deep forks.
```

Author: Changed "VolatileDB" for "volatile part of the chain", the volatile db is an implementation detail

> 

Author: No, I don't think so. I think we need to discuss what this component is in a general plain english and then  at some point make the requirements explicit. That is how I structured most of the other pages.
